Design:

One of the first things we decided was that the program should be divided 
into several classes to abstract the code and make it easier to find certain 
parts in the code. Another reason is to have the ability to create objects of 
a certain class which is the way we chose. All our classes are instantiated 
throughout runtime and this gives us high security in the programs 
structure. We could have let the Cart class be a static one since it’s a static 
part of the program, but we decided to go with a non-static Cart to 
achieve encapsulation and a high protection level for data. 

At the beginning of writing our code, we saved a static list of products 
directly in the MyForm class. This practice was easier to work with, but on 
the other hand we encountered a couple of problems, as the data could 
be easily accessed from any part of the code in our project. Another 
downside was that we used the same list to directly work with the data 
within by other classes, like the Cart class. This lead us unfortunately to 
unexpected behaviour and a frustrating bug. Our Cart operations were 
changing the data within the main objects and it was hard to detect the 
bug. By abstracting both product object in Class Product and cart object in 
Class CartProduct, along with creating Class Data, we could overcome this 
problem and create a solid and easily maintained code.
 
We have relied upon encapsulation through our code by using methods 
where ever we could. In MyForm class, we created many methods that 
mostly depend on each other. This nestling of methods serves very well as 
an object oriented pattern and gives the program a solid build up. But on 
the other hand, it made the source code in some areas a little bit hard to 
follow and understand from the first outlook, and in some angles, we have 
written more lines of code. As the program is not very big, no significant 
performance issues can be raised by using more instructions. Gaining 
reusability and security was, for us, a good choice over readability and 
minor performance issues in this project, and has influenced many of our 
structure and design related decisions.